@)

others. From scientific basis, the difference of temperature is based on air
pressure. The combined effect of temperature & pressure results in humidity.
And the resultant of the three (Pressure, Temperature & Humidity) results in
a day's weather. And in a 60 day period, based on the totality of pressure,
temperature & humidity the resultant season is determined. There are six
seasons in a yearâ€”(i) Winter (ii) Spring (iii) Summer (iv) Rainy (v) Autumn
& (vi) Hemant. Generally the year can be divided based on climate into two
periods: period of Low Nutrition & period of Liberation. A year's first six
months from January to June are period of low nutrition and the second half
from July to December are period of Liberation. These two periods are
respectively sun's Uttarayan & Dakshinayan. In the first period based on the
increasing heat sun is prominent and in the second period based on coldness
moon is prominent.
Time corresponds to Spinal Cord & Spinal Nerves in human body:
From scientific point of view, working of all body organs & sub-organs right
upto the cells is dependant on the central nervous system. According to
Ayurveda, Soul (S11) is the director , Mind (44) is the main acting agent,
which in consonance with all the sense & action organs ($41) provides life
(Aaa) to a human being. In the human body soul is akin to an energy system
which keeps through brain to spinal cord, sciatica nerve & spinal nerves from
head to arms & fingers, legs & toes and in the organs in the trunk, keeps all
of them active. Apart from the Five Elements mentioned earlier, Time (1c),
Nizertion (FEM), Mind. (AA). & Soul (SH, are. in. same.form or the other
organs of the central nervous system. Among these the centre of the brain as.
the densest impulse giving point corresponds to the soul (S111), Cereberum
(Big Brain) & Cerebellum respectively correspond to Mind (44) and Direction
(fem). Just as emotions & feelings originate from the mind, in the same way
according to physiology cereberum's functions of mental activities like
memory, intelligence, sense of responsibility, thinking, reasoning, morality,
learning etc. all originate from Mann (44).

19 Charak -3 Ayurvedic Acupressure

