to the bulk of the feces. It is because of this that
the stool is formed in the colon of a person who
fasts for a long time. Stool is formed even in the
foetus in the mother's womb, which does not eat
anything. This dark green stool called meconium
comes out during the process of delivery. If feces
are not evacuated in time, it generally leads to the
impairment of digestion and the accumulation of
waste products in the blood leading to diseases and
premature old age.

Bacteria in the Feces : As has been described
before, the solid content of the feces constitutes
35 per cent. Between one third and one fifth of
this solid content is composed of bacteria. On an
average, about 8 gm. of dry bacteria are excreted
from the stool every day. In the evacuated stool, a
majority of these bacteria are dead. While some
of the bacteria in the colon are helpful in
synthesizing vitamins for the body, others are
positively harmful. In condition of constipation,
these harmful bacteria are retained in the body and
the helpful ones stop their work because of the
presence of these harmful bacteria, both alive and
dead. Toxins from these bacteria get absorbed into

(291
