)

ii)

iii)

Vatika type of Piles : In the vatika type, there
is no discharge from the piles; these are
wrinkled, hard, rough, dry and dusky red in
colour, sharp pointed, tortuous, fissured or
ulcerated, irregularly spread and associated
with various kinds of pain such as colic,
pricking, twitching and tingling. It is associated
with pain in the back, phallus and the scrotum
and with quick heart beats.

Paittika type of Piles : In the paittika type,
the piles mass is soft, flabby, delicate, tender
to touch, of red, yellow, blue or black colour,
and associated with excessive discharge,
smelling like raw meat, discharge of thin,
yellow or reddish fluid, bleeding and
accompanied by a burning sensation. The piles
mass may get suppurated and the patient may
become anemic.

Kaphaja type of Piles : In the kaphaja type,
the piles masses are large in size, protuberant,
smooth, painless to touch, moist, white, sticky,
indurated, heavy, rigid, benumbed, with
excessive itching and continuous as well as
profuse discharge of whitish or reddish and

(38)
