system, a respiratory system in our body, so there is an
energy system in our body.

Now the question arises as to how can we actually
experience this energy system of human body? Well let us
consider a few examples. A human being is living or dead
is known to us if the pulse beats, the breathing is on, some
kind of movements are there in the body. What is the
force behind all such activities? If we compare a dead
human & a living human, we say that the latter is living
because of 'bio energy' or sometimes we hear people
saying — the soul has departed from the body & therefore
it is dead. This so called soul or Atma or Energy we
repeat here which makes a human being living, is the
actual source of all energy systems within the body. This
life force enters the womb of a mother & is born out as a
child by the extra ordinary & supernatural phenomenon
of nature. The sperm & the ova of a male & female
respectively may unite many a times but the life force is
introduced only at a specific moment as & when destined
by the creator of this soul. Thereby we can say that the
‘Param- atma' introduces its smaller segment 'atma' in a
mother's womb, to given birth to an entirely new kind of
energy system. So does Acupressure. It helps in healing
the illnesses by a slight pressure on human body &
thereby stimulating the energy level connected to the

Colour eee
Therapy
