e) Consumption or Deficiency of Yin:

Yin

f) Sinking of Yin

U

Yin

Yang

Yang

g) Sinking of Yang

Yin

‘gg
2

Yang

When the body's yin energies are depleted, the
decrerase of yin may lead to symptoms of apparent
or relatively excess of yang. This is called empty
heat condition and should be treated as such. At
the time of menopause the yin energies get depleted
and empty heat conditions arise causing hot flushes
and other empty heat symptoms. In this case yin
energy of the body needs tonification.

Sinking of yin is a very cruicial stage, when the yin
is severely deficient. The patient has spontaneous
perspiration, whole body is hot mouth is dry, he
has retention of urine, constipation. Tongue is dry
& very short & red. The patient can not show his
tongue. In this, the patient can go into coma. When
mountaineers are stuck in snow blizzards, such a
thing can happens.

Sinking of yang is a very crucial stage, when the
yang is severly deficient. Following symptoms
appear:

Cold extremities, chilliness, frequent & voluminous
urination incontinence of urine, and stool, loose
stool, wet swollen and short tongue, excess
sweating with only sweat. In this, the patient can
go into coma.

Example: When Heart yang sinks, blood
circulation greatly reduces. Patient's lips become
blue to lack of oxygen, pulse becomes very weak
and the patient becomes unconscious. The tongue
becomes very small and the patient is unable to
take it out. In such a situation, apart from toning
Heat yang, Heat yang should also be raised.

@)

A Treatise

Advance

o
“Acupressure / Acupuncture - Part 7 )

