Right side's fingers were taken as brain's various lobes: diagnosis by pressing with
probe gave no indication & relief. But by using the left hands RF & MF & rubbing by
proble. the patient's voice started coming and arms & legs started functioning slowly.
Patient's family members started crying in disbelief and the patient himself started
walking wobblying. At that moment many other patients present at the Centre and other
therapists, watching the near miracle, were overwhelmed with Ayurvedic Acupressure's
divine power.

Important Facts :

The above example cannot be taken as standard treatment for all paralysis cases
because each case is due to the changes & seriousness in the parts of the brain. The
diagnosis has to be based on MRI/CT Scan reports. Some internal parts of the brain
like Corpus Callosum, Basal nueclic, Putamen, Thalmic Region, Ventricles, MCA,
Cerebral Aqueduct, Hypothalamus, Internal/External Capsules, Insula are
important. Any infarction (cell destruction - ant ABTA) lesions, cyst etc. can result
in very slow relief and patient's relatives have to be well informed by the therapist.

Case History :
Paralysis & Coma:

Anewly married lady, age 22-23 years, third day after marriage, had such a severe
attack of paralysis that she was admitted to a Nursing Home, treated there for a week
but with little response, came to the Sansthan to check; she was brought & carried in
arms in an unconscious state by all her relatives. At the sansthan, all her test reports
were studied. Then, by twisting her fingers & toes, she showed some movement and
slow groaning. In Ayurvedic Acupressure Tulyartha principle, palms correspond to the
entire body and on fingers, brain lobes have been identified. Similarly, toes. Their
fruitful effect has been witnessed in Ayurvedic Acupressure time & again. So, after a
few minutes of twisting the fingers and toes when some consciousness was restored in
the patient, the following treatment was given : be Mink wail fl bE sof eh

@e 245,09 Â¥
on av
